1
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
RULES & REGULATIONS FOR STONECRESS TOWNHOMES
Revised: 3/23/2021
I. GENERAL
These Rules & Regulations, as well as the Declaration & Bylaws, apply to owners, tenants 
and guests.
II. AMBIANCE, COURTESY, NUISANCE, AND NOISE
1. All residents have a right to the quiet enjoyment of their home.
2. Residents and guests need to be considerate of their neighbors and avoid 
excessive noise levels from radios, TVs, stereo equipment, musical 
instruments, etc., between the hours of 9:00 pm and 8:00 am that may disturb 
other residents.
3. Residents shall not entertain guests (parties) outside of their residence unless 
board approved. Quiet small social gatherings on back decks are excluded 
from this rule.
4. Owners and residents shall not engage in any abusive or harassing behavior, 
verbal or physical, or any form of intimidation or aggression directed at other 
owners, residents or guests, or directed at management, its agents, employees, 
or vendors.
5. No garage sales are permitted.
III. APPEARANCE OF HOMES
1. Residents shall not hang garments, rugs, or bedding, from the windows or 
from any exterior part of their homes.
2. Bikes, kayaks and the like are prohibited from being hung from porches and 
railings. When not in use they are to be stored in the residence garage. BBQ 
grills are permitted only on back porches, back decks, or ground level behind 
the residence.2
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
3. Garbage cans, yard waste and recycling bins must be stored in garages or in 
board approved storage cabinets. They may not be placed outside for 
collection more than 24 hours in advance, and must be returned to their 
storage site promptly, no later than the end of the working day. No compost 
bins or worm bins are permitted.
4. Signs, except for “for sale signs” and “political signs” are not allowed.
 Residents may place political signs in the windows of their units.
 No more than three signs are allowed at any one time.
 The term, “political signs” includes matters and candidates to be voted on 
in an election.
 No political sign may exceed 18x24 inches.
 Such signs may be displayed up to six weeks prior to an election date and 
must be removed 10 or fewer days following the election.
5. Residents may display the American flag from their porch or patio, consistent 
with the federal flag display law.
IV. PETS
1. Owners and occupants must keep their pets within their homes. Doghouses, 
kennels, dog-runs or the like are not permitted.
2. All pets when outside a home shall be supervised and maintained on an 
adequate leash or other means of physical control. 
3. Pets are not allowed to urinate or defecate on any lawns, gardens, or
walkways. If a pet accidentally defecates, the pet walker must remove and 
dispose of the resulting animal waste.
4. Owners shall take sufficient steps to prevent their pets from unreasonably 
disturbing other owners or residents and shall remove any pet that they 
cannot sufficiently control. 
5. The following dogs have been determined to be dangerous breeds and will not 
be permitted in the Condominium: Pit Bulls, Rottweilers and German 
Shepherds, or any mix with 50% of those breeds. Further, any dog proving to 
be aggressive or dangerous regardless of breed is prohibited. Note restrictions 
in the Declaration 9.8 regarding unusual animals.3
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
6. All complaints about pets must be made by letter or email to the Board or 
property manager for review and action. The pet owner will be advised of any 
specific action required to resolve the complaint. If a pet complaint is not 
resolved within a specified time, the Association may require removal of the 
pet.
V. VEHICLES AND PARKING
1. The speed limit on Stonecress lanes is 10 miles per hour. Traffic flow is 
indicated by signs and markings on the pavement.
2. Two (2) parking spaces are deeded to each unit. In most cases this is a single 
car garage and one tandem driveway space. Garages may not be converted to 
living space. Trucks and any other vehicles exceeding 17.5 feet in length, 
campers, trailers, motorhomes, boats, or inoperative vehicles shall not be 
parked or permitted to remain in any driveway, parking space or street.
Further, no vehicle shall be parked on any driveway that extends into the 
streets or sidewalks or parked on the street if it blocks a driveway or 
otherwise inhibits vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
3. Owners/Residents are NOT allowed to park in guest parking at any time 
unless advised by the HOA board. 
 Units 734, 742, 750, and 758 have deeded street parking spaces instead of 
driveway spaces. These units are prohibited from parking in their driveway. 
 Units 1348, 1352, 1356, 1360, 1364, and 1368 have detached garages and 
separate deeded parking spaces. Owners/residents of these units may not park 
in front of their garages. 
 Units 1314 and 1322 do not have garages but have two side-by-side style 
driveway spaces in front of their units. They may not block access to the 
sidewalk and guests may not park on the sidewalk. 
4. An owner/resident may only park a maximum of two vehicles in the 
community at any time. Additional vehicles will need to be parked off property 
at the vehicle owner’s expense.
5. All owner/resident vehicles need to be registered with the Property Group. 
Each unit owner will be issued two guest parking passes and it is the unit 
owner/resident’s responsibility to ensure their guests park according to the 
Rules of the association. Violators will be cited and can be towed at the vehicle 4
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
owner’s expense. Parking passes must be returned to the HOA when property 
is sold.
6. Guest parking:
 Visitors (not owners or residents) may park along the north and east side of 
Stonecress Lane in Guest Parking for a maximum of 7 consecutive days in one 
month with a valid parking pass displayed in the windshield, and only while 
staying in the host's home. Exceptions require board approval.
 Visitors using guest parking spaces must obtain a guest parking pass from the 
resident they are visiting and display it on the front dashboard or hung from the 
mirror of the guest’s vehicle.
 For special or extenuating circumstances residents shall contact the Board for 
permission.
 The Board may tow any vehicle parked improperly.
7. Parking is prohibited on Polly’s Lane, the South and West side of Stonecress 
Lane, along Daylily Lane, and outside the garages of 1348-1368 Stonecress 
Lane. Delivery and service vehicles are exceptions to this rule. If work is being 
performed at a residence that requires the service vehicle to be longer than 10 
minutes, it is required that the vehicle be parked in guest parking. Exceptions 
are government utility vehicles.
8. Residents must properly clean up and remove oil and fluid spills caused by 
their vehicle. These and other chemicals my not be washed down storm drains.
VI. MAINTENANCE
1. Repairs of gutters, downspouts, and tight lines (underground drainage line) 
are the responsibility of the homeowner and the cost to repair any damage to 
the roof or structure as a result of the neglect of the responsibility will be the 
responsibility of the homeowner.
2. Gutter cleaning, roof cleaning and moss removal on an annual basis are 
currently the responsibility of the HOA. Additional gutter cleaning may be 
performed by the owner as needed. Roof and moss cleaning should not be 
attempted by the resident or homeowner since any resulting damage to the 
roof would the owner's responsibility. In addition, the HOA will clean tight 
lines on a bi-annual basis.
3. Sprinkler timers are only to be adjusted by a member of the Board or someone 5
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
designated or hired by the Board in order to ensure the system has sufficient 
pressure to operate, and all lawns are sufficiently watered. If the sprinkler 
times need to be adjusted, please make all requests through the Property 
Group. All requests will be evaluated as soon as possible. A penalty will occur 
for owners/residents who make adjustments to timers without board 
approval.
4. The privacy fence along High School Road is community property. No
alteration to the fence or hanging items on the fence is prohibited. The area 
behind the fence must be kept clear of all vegetation for a width of three feet 
along the entire length of the fence. The clearing allows for emergency utility 
work. Also, there must be access to this area from Daylily Lane through each 
backyard.
5. Front yard trees are the responsibility of each homeowner. Responsibility 
includes regular pruning, treatment against disease, removal if the tree fails, 
and planting a replacement tree (tree variety must be approved by the HOA).
6. Cleanup of graffiti or permanent paint markings on Stonecress-owned roads 
or property that are attributable to a specific unit (e.g., a name of a resident) 
will be charged to the unit.
7. Anything other than rainwater and snowmelt down the storm drains is 
prohibited. This includes car washing and flushing debris into the road since 
these will result in infractions of COBI Municipal Code 15.22.
8. No chemical herbicides, pesticides or fertilizers are to be used in gardens 
bordering the swale behind units on Stonecress Lane.
VII. UNIT ALTERATIONS
1. The following types of alterations require prior written approval by the 
Board:
 Alterations, additions, or changes of any exterior building component, finish 
or color.
 Installing or altering decks, patios and hardscape.
 Installing visible air conditioners, ventilators, or awnings.
 Modifications that affect the structural integrity, plumbing or electrical 
systems.
 No exterior radio or TV antennas/dishes larger than 24” in diameter are 6
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
allowed. Satellite dishes must be attached to the wooden fascia next to the 
roof of the building. Dishes improperly installed must be removed or relocated 
within 30 days. Owners must remove dishes prior to sale of homes or before if 
no longer used. Owners are responsible for damage done to roofs and/or 
siding due to improperly installed dishes. Owners must submit an Application 
for Installation of Satellite Dishes and Other Equipment which may be 
downloaded from the stonecresshoa.org website.
 Planting of deep-rooted trees and shrubs.
2. Approval for alterations requires submission of a detailed written request to 
the Board or Property Group. Forms for this purpose may be found on the 
Stonecress website.
3. Board approval is not required for the following: wind chimes, flowerpots, 
holiday lighting attached to the house (from one day following Thanksgiving 
through January 10 for Christmas and two weeks before and after for all other 
holidays), trellises, hanging pot hooks and arbors as part of the landscaping. 
VIII. SALES AND RENTALS
1. A single For Sale sign may be placed in an upstairs/ downstairs window, or zip 
tied to the front porch (or balcony if a Cottonwood unit) railing when a 
residence is for sale. No other signs or ground posts are allowed. Only a single 
sandwich board is allowed on the sidewalks or front yard during open houses. 
Lock boxes are allowed but should be in an inconspicuous location. Lock boxes 
are prohibited from being attached to front doors.
2. A Move-in fee of $250 is assessed to the owner for each change of occupant 
whether the new occupant is an owner or tenant. The move-in fee is payable 
to Stonecress Townhomes.
3. All owners desiring to rent must register tenants with the Property Group
before tenants are allowed to move in. The Property Group must receive a 
copy of the lease and proof or certification that a background check has been 
conducted. 
4. The renter must receive and agree to follow the Rules & Regulations and 
governing documents provided by the Property Group, as evidenced by a 7
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
signed addendum to the lease and completed tenant registration form prior 
to move-in. An administrative fee of $50 is payable to the Property Group.
5. Owners shall require their tenants to provide proof of insurance in 
accordance with the Condominium Declaration.
6. Owners are responsible for their tenants (and property managers, if used)
compliance with these Rules and procedures.
7. Damage to other units and property due to moving in or moving out or 
transfer of items during occupancy is the responsibility of the owner. All such 
damage must be reported to the Board or Property Group.
8. Extreme care must be exercised with regard to moving trucks. Moving trucks 
may not block parking areas. Owners must notify the Board or Property 
Group in advance. Owners are responsible for damage caused by moving 
vans.
9. Vacation rentals are strictly prohibited. No units may be leased for a period of 
less than 30 days nor leased to more than one renter.
IX. OCCUPANCY
1. All owners, tenants or occupants of a unit are required to register and maintain 
their correct names, phone numbers, mailing address, pets and vehicles with 
the Property Group. Any changes must be updated within 30 days.
2. It is the owner’s responsibility to keep occupants informed of changes to the 
Rules & Regulations and other relevant Association information.
3. All units are for residential purposes only. Units may not be used as a business, 
although home office use is permitted.
4. Non-compliance with Rules & Regulations and the Condominium Declaration 
will result in a notice and opportunity to be heard, as provided in the 
Declaration. Owners are responsible for infractions of their tenants. Noncompliance may result in fines.
X. MONTHLY ASSESSMENTS8
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
1. Monthly assessments are due by the 1st of each month. Assessments not paid 
by the 10th of the month shall be delinquent and assessed a late charge of $25 
and interest at the rate of one percent per month on the outstanding balance. 
2. Delinquency notices, when required, will incur a management administrative 
fee of $10. Assessments delinquent 90 days will be turned over to an attorney 
for collection. All legal and administrative fees incurred for collection of a 
delinquent account will be assessed to the owner.
3. Failure to respond to delinquent assessments may result in further penalties 
and placement of a lien on the mortgagee of the unit.
XI. ENFORCEMENT
1. It is the responsibility of each owner to know the terms and provisions of the 
Declaration, Bylaws and Rules & Regulations of the Association.
2. Each owner is responsible for advising tenants or guests of the owner of any 
provision of the Declaration, Bylaws or Rules & Regulations that apply to them. 
These Rules & Regulations are provided as a supplement to the Declaration &
Bylaws and are not meant to relieve any owner from the obligation to know 
the provisions of these documents. Owners shall also comply with all statutes, 
ordinances and requirements of all municipal, state and federal authorities 
now in force or which may hereafter be in force, pertaining to the use of the 
Condominium.
3. Each owner, tenant, or occupant of a unit shall comply with the provisions of 
the Declaration & Bylaws, and Rules & Regulations of the Association, as they 
may be amended from time to time, and with all decisions made by the Board 
or the Association pursuant thereto. Failure to comply shall be grounds for an 
action to recover sums due, damages, or injunctive relief, or any or all of them, 
maintainable by the Board, the Association’s managing agent on its behalf, or 
by the aggrieved owner.
4. To enforce the Rules & Regulations, the Board may also levy monetary fines. 
The Board may give written notice of the violation and state a reasonable 
period of time for correcting the violation. If the violation is not corrected 
within the time stated, the Board may itself make the correction, and any costs 
incurred in connection wherewith shall be assessed to the unit in the first 
month following the correction. Payment of such costs shall be enforced in the 9
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
same manner as is provided for the enforcement of all assessments, as 
outlined in the Declaration & Bylaws.
5. Prior to taking any enforcement action (other than the initial notice of 
violation), the Board will give the owner involved written notice. The notice 
shall include (a) a statement of the offense, (b) the proposed action and/or 
fine.
 The offending owner may request a hearing before the Board or a specially 
appointed committee or representative regarding the proposed action or fine. 
Written request must be received via USPS to the Property Group, or email to 
a board member within 10 business days of mailing.
 At the hearing, the affected owner shall have the right to give testimony as 
outlined in the notice, subject to reasonable Rules of procedure established by 
the Board to assure a prompt and orderly resolution of the issue at hand.
 Evidence presented at the hearing shall be considered in making the decision 
regarding fines or other enforcement action.
 The affected owner shall be notified of the decision in writing. In addition, the 
Board may take any other legal action appropriate or remedy or penalize a 
violation of these Rules, the Bylaws or the Condominium Declaration. In 
enforcing these Rules, the Board may delegate its function(s), including the 
determination of whether a violation has occurred, and the remedy therefore, to 
an agent, including but not limited to a single, or group of, director(s) or 
officers, or the Property Group. Owners shall be financially responsible for all 
damages caused by their tenants or guest, and for any fines imposed as the result 
of conduct on the part of their tenants, guests or invitees. Any charge for 
damages or fines shall be imposed against the unit, itself, in which the party 
responsible rented or was visiting, and shall be enforceable in the same manner 
as is provided for the enforcement of maintenance fees.
6. The process that will be followed by the Property Group for non-compliance 
of the Rules & Regulations is as follows: 
 For the first non-compliance occurrence a letter will be send stating the issue 
of non-compliance. If the owner is not in agreement with the violation, they 
will have the opportunity to be heard by the Board.
 Second and continuing non-compliance will result in sending the owner a 
notice of fine in accordance with the fee schedule noted below.
7. Failure to comply with cease-and-desist orders for unauthorized construction 
may result in daily fines.10
Stonecress Townhomes Revised: 3/23/2021
FEES:
 Monthly Assessment Late Fee: $ 25
 Returned Check Fee: $ 25
 Delinquency and non-compliance letters: $10 
 Move-in fee: $250
 Administration fee for new tenants: $50
FINES:
 First Occurrence: Warning
 Second Occurrence: $50
 Third Occurrence: $100
 Each Occurrence Thereafter: $250
 Exterior change/building modification without board approval: $500
The Property Group
1040 NE Hostmark Street, Suite 210, Poulsbo, WA 98370
(206) 855-1131
After Hours Emergency: (206) 577-0410
www.propertygroup.net
Stonecress Homeowners’ Association:
Email: stonecresscondos.com
Website: www.stonecresshoa.or
